no intro no outro just real talk
this video is going to be especially
succinct because it really has no thesis
and no conclusion currently in Victoria
British Columbia Canada and in most of
the Pacific Northwest illegal hard drugs
have been in effect decriminalized and I
just had a conversation with two police
officers about it at quite some length
we had two drug addicts using what was
either crack cocaine possibly fentanyl
possibly meth but smoking a white powder
in our Clear View just outside of our
window and they were not in any hurry to
go anywhere and I talked it over with my
girlfriend first before calling out
maman I was like well look we're both
witnesses to this we can both take
photographs they're mobile phones
if we don't call 911 will like ethically
morally whose responsibility isn't to do
something about this if not ours right
now like if I don't do this if I don't
call that one one then I'm really a bit
of a hypocrite if I complain that nobody
does anything about the drug drug
epidemic but the ultimate reason to
reach out and challenge Authority is
just to learn from those authority
figures fundamentally about how the
system works and why the status quo is
the way it is and that is what I learned
from talking to these two police
officers so we called 9-1-1 told them
the story and again we have two
witnesses photographs in this case it's
an increase to an force the law this
could race through the court system
right about 15 minutes after the call to
9 was placed two police officers showed
up but and they were undercover police
officers they were in a plain black car
and not wearing police uniforms and they
just came and asked these two people
these drug users to move along
what
I think also legally they didn't have to
do I mean if you're not gonna be
punished rethink drugs see if every
right kind of be passed out in the park
or whatever they were those they were no
rush to leave I mean they use drugs and
they were enjoying lying around on the
grass in that span of time they smoked
whatever the substance was twice now you
know you can see the puffs of white
smoke we could see everything you could
see the the drug paraphernalia in action
with let's say um and I went out to
target the Casa de it's nobody gonna get
arrested here is nobody actually
interested in enforcing the law and what
ensued
it's exactly like the Internet social
justice warrior stereotypes playing out
in real life and these cops these are
some of the toughest cops in this part
of Canada these are the hard guys
they're relatively big and muscular and
tattooed incidentally extensive tattoos
and the cops these are the guys who
supposedly are out here to to rough up
the drug addicts as opposed to being in
a softer line of work with his Police
Department and of course as one of the
cops said to Fiat length they found me
very intimidating they found me very
confrontational in asking these
questions but from my perspective I told
them this too I said look I'm just here
to learn if I didn't have this
conversation with you I said this
towards the innocent but I didn't have
this conversation with you I would not
have learned that this is the way things
are here and I I think you know I think
you'll agree I could not have learned
this from reading the newspapers because
the newspapers and so on are not
entirely honest about this so they began
by just laughing at the notion that they
would actually enforce the law and
arrest someone for smoking crack cocaine
fentanyl or meth as the case may be they
laughed at that they thought that was
hilarious and when they they saw that I
was not laughing they went on to detail
that if they had arrested these two
people the crown would have thrown out
the case now in the Canadian context the
crown just means some
at a higher level of authority than
themselves I mean in theory this could
mean the prosecutor's office but it
might just mean someone else in the
police department in this context I
don't think the term crown should be
interpreted too too narrowly but in case
whoever they hand the paperwork to next
after arresting someone apparently there
would just be no interest in enforcing
the law and they proceeded to inform me
about just how left-wing and SJ w
Victoria BC Canada was that I must be
aware that the police are already facing
brutal criticism that must be really
tough they're facing terrible criticism
for being so oppressive towards the
armies of homeless drug addicts living
in tents on the street oh I'm sorry I
didn't realize that what are you signed
up to be a cop you should be protected
against criticism we were talking about
laying hands on drug addicts here it's a
tough job I completely appreciate that
but if you think a legitimate reason to
not enforce the law is that there would
be criticism that is hilarious oh one of
these two cops was white and one of them
was Asian and he mentioned as the
conversation persisted that he had spent
some time in Taiwan that was a guy I
just got back in town one I've been
living in telling us it's inter I also -
look I speak read and write Chinese
which he did not react to I'm guessing
he does not speak to peace but you know
at one point early on they said like
what's the point of even asking us this
like what's the point of even asking us
about the law and enforcing and stuff
they said you know like yeah that's the
law
but you know nobody wants us to enforce
it like you know low peace they didn't
specifically say City Hall or local
government his wording was he said you
know the political climate here in
Victoria
nobody wants us to enforce the law so
this wasn't naming the mayor or anything
specifically the responsible this but
just the political climate and the the
harsh harsh criticism they face but I
said to them you know
there are some countries in the world
where they actually enforce the law
against drugs and they have dramatically
less drug use so the asian guy
especially got very defensive about this
I said you know I said look I'm gonna
say this to you guys real quickly cuz I
don't wanna waste your time with their
police on duty I said but look you know
I used to live in the Golden Triangle I
used to live in the world center where
they produce drugs like opium heroin but
also methamphetamine and so on you know
this is a one of the world's great
centers of drug production where hard
drugs are really really cheap you know
what on the streets there you don't see
a single homeless drug addict you don't
see any drug dealing because the
government of China People's Republic of
China check they actually enforce the
law right the asian guy immediately
stood with like oh yeah but they also
have a lot of human rights super famous
and i said that may be true but that's
not what i was debating here i said it's
also true that countries like Japan and
Taiwan and Singapore have democracy and
freedom of speech but they enforce the
law and they don't have this kind of
epidemic of drug addiction and this guy
was really trying to throw me every kind
of far left-wing excuse why this isn't
true that no he said he'd been to Taiwan
that no these were some how horribly
oppressive governments and you know
Japan has a lot of organized crime and
hey you know what I'm not claiming that
there isn't a single vial of opium or
heroin or cocaine in Tokyo Japan of
course drugs exist everywhere you know
what I'm claiming to you I'm claiming to
you that there wouldn't be crackheads
openly smoking crack cocaine in the
middle of a city park in downtown Tokyo
there wouldn't be flagrant drug use from
drug addicts in a public place with like
eight witnesses that's welcome you you
will never see that in Tokyo you will
never see that in Singapore you will
never see that in Taiwan you will never
see that in China the rates of drug
addiction are dramatically lower they're
not zero and you don't have this kind of
public problem and I remember the first
cop that laughed and he said if we
actually enforce the law we would have
about 200 arrests just on this street
pointing over one direction I say let's
okay that's it's interesting point do
you actually think that's an
unattainable goal for the police
department do you actually think it
would be impossible to solve the drug
problem by arresting the people who are
openly using fentanyl heroin other
opioids methamphetamine methamphetamines
very popular here crack cocaine
arresting those people maybe they are
two hundred people it's not mm it's not
20 thousand the people who are
flagrantly violating law streets do you
actually think that's uh that's
impossible or an unattainable goal and
again they revert to saying nobody wants
to do that that's not the political
climate here
I remember they specifically said to me
that if I ran for government if I tried
to get elected to the mayor or city
council office no one would vote for me
because everyone supports their policy
the policy as they're enforcing it of
having de facto decriminalized hard
drugs on the streets and then they went
into this cycle of like you're being
very aggressive one of the cops said to
me I have more problems with you than I
do with those two drug users when I
asked so the problem isn't the drug
addicts the problem is someone like me
who dares to come out and say hey is
nobody actually getting arrested is
nobody interested in enforcing the law
so look as brief as that interchange was
actually could offer a bunch more funny
anecdotes from what the police said the
real more of the story for you in the
audience the moral of the story is if
you don't make this a little bit of an
effort if you don't take this risk you
won't learn for yourself you know the
structure of political authority the
anatomy of political authority what the
law means in practice where you live and
that was one of the things the cop said
to me he said well look you know you
studied political science in university
so like you know the law and theory on
paper but this is this is how it is like
in the real world drugs have been come
lately decriminalized apparently because
the police are just too intimidated by
criticism from the general public and
some kind of reluctance which you know
needs to be pinned down whether it's
been down by someone like me or by
journalists or by politicians standing
for others some kind of reluctance on
the part of higher authorities like the
crown the court system maybe its local
politicians maybe it's provincial
politicians some kind of reluctance to
actually enforce the laws as they are on
the books let me tell you something
whether or not there are people you know
in the privacy of their own apartments
in Japan very secretive Lee smoking
methamphetamine sure there were a few
alright the difference between downtown
Seattle and downtown Tokyo is striking
the difference between downtown
Vancouver yes yes y'all and hey even
downtown nice France I mean we've been
to all kinds of democracies around the
world that have the drug problem under
control that much better extent in this
telecom faint Coover compared to you nan
China compared to Singapore compared to
uh Victoria come sorry my daughter right
now is growing up in France if my
daughter came here if my daughter came
to visit if my daughter came to spend
quality time with me I would be ashamed
and afraid to have her play in the
playground that's right outside my door
and why because nobody wants to enforce
the law and so this park like the whole
city of the Victoria and like the whole
Pacific Northwest Seattle and Vancouver
included it's become a playground for
drug addicts and for drug addicts only
there's a very simple solution that you
can see in Japan you can see in Taiwan
you can see in communist China you can
see in Singapore and that is to enforce
the law so the power can be used by
everyone who is willing to obey the law